Maryna Veksler
CIS5208 RVAA 1225
05/14/2022
News Report Post 1

1.	How Privacy Laws Hurt Defendants [1]
The article proposes a different view on the data privacy. Specifically, it describes the op-ed published by Rebecca Wexler [2] that emphasizes how unequal privacy laws for acquisition and defense can harm the later and take away their rights for the defense and protection.
In her op-ed, the author refers to the California Consumer Privacy Act (2018) and New York Privacy Act (May 9 2019), which allows the law enforcement to have a wide access to the personal digital evidence, while significantly or completely limiting the access for the defendant. Eventually, these laws prevent the defendant from disclosing the evidence crucial for their case.
The example of the case of Ravanell Young in California is an example of how defendant may not be able to prove their intent of the crime or innocence due to inability to present digital evidence in court. In this particular scenario, the defendant was not able to present the evidence of the life endangerment and harassment to one’s life that led the defendant to act in the self-defense. 
The privacy should be universal and exempt to violate privacy or disclose sensitive information should be carefully considered and given at the exceptional conditions rather than as a norm. Moreover, for the criminal investigation cases, the one should either not completely deny access to the digital data and information or ensure that it denied to all parties involved. 
Conclusion
This news article and op-ed brings an important discussion on the applicability of the privacy rules. It is not right or fair to provide a person or organization with the privacy exempt while refusing the same exempt to others. Nonetheless, there should be a clear set of defined rules for the events when the data cannot be shared with a subject of investigation but needs to be available for the government and police officials. Moreover, it is the responsibility of everyone personally to check the privacy protection provided by the organizations that hold the data.

2.	Credit Card Privacy [3]
The investigation conducted by The Washington Post reporter shed light on the privacy leakages through usage of credit cards [4]. The author bought banana at Target using Chase Amazon Prime Reward Visa and Apple’s Mastercard in order to track the companies that get our information and to determine how this information is being used. 
While we are used to the fact that our online purchases provide the companies with the information that allows to send targeted promotions via email and select the advertisement we see when browsing, the credit card “surveillance is a little less obvious. Obviously, companies issuing credit cards protect us from fraudulent charges, but according to Equifax the spending patterns itself are huge source of the data, which when passed across the hands have a higher risk of being stolen. Law and information professor from University of California at Berkley, Chris Hoofhagle, confirmed that these data can be used for behavior modeling. This opens the question of the risks we are reveal ourselves to by using credit cards. 
When asked about which kind of data is being shared with partner companies, Chase spokesman Patricia Wexler only stated the “personalized transaction level data” is not shared, which brings a lot of questions on which data exactly are being shared. On the contrary, Apple declined sharing any information with partner companies, while confirming sharing it with credit agencies. 
The card networks are another story. Both Chase and Apple credit cards are dependent on the Visa and Mastercard network respectively, giving the later opportunity to share our personal data in anonymized form. Most of this data ends up on the Google servers which, according to the anonymous source, uses it to link ads seen by people to purchases made offline. 
The simple “banana” purchase also allows retail store itself, Target in this case, collect personal data. Similarly to Google, Target uses this data to target customers with adds and special offers. Moreover, Target spokesman Jenna Reck confirmed that they reserve the right to “share your personal information with other companies” who “may use the information we share to provide special offers and opportunities for you”.
Another link in the chain of credit card users’ personal data leakage is hardware and software used during the transactions. The card swipe machines gain the data to the owner’s name, card number, email, etc. while it is unclear how this data is used further, it is definitely does not sound secure or private. At the same time, software wallets such as Google Pay and Samsung Pay, can track the location and create targeted promotions and ads based on the purchases made. Apple Pay representatives claim that they do not store any data “that can be tied back to you”.

The article brings an important issue to the sight, when you simply buy banana you give a lot of private information, often too much information, that can be used to target you. The author also points out that all of these companies do have the option to opt out from data sharing and thus protect your privacy. Nonetheless, these options are usually disabled by default, and because most of the users do not know about (1) how much of private data is being collected and (2) that there even an option to opt-out this does not seem like an efficient mechanism to maintain users’ privacy. On the contrary, the opt-out policies are mostly in place to protect the companies from any legal claims from users about leakage of the private data.

This experiment demonstrates an example of data mining privacy concerns. The degree at which users are being constantly analyzed by the credit card swipes is enormous and most of the time not well designed from the security standpoint. Large number of third-party and partner companies that receive the private data of users raises even bigger privacy concern. Even thought, it is claimed that the data is mostly encrypted, and only general user profile is shared, there is no information on how the data will be used in the future. Moreover, each link in the chain of transferring collected data can lead to leakages and stealth of data, which can be used in the future in order to apply social engineering attacks on users.

Conclusion
The data privacy is an important issue. We, as users, should always assume that our data is being collected and look for the options to block this when possible. At the same time, companies should follow stricter regulation and have much more limited access to private data of the consumers. The data mining however, can be used to the user benefits. For example, it allows the population to receive valid promotions and create demographics reports that can lead to improvement of the life quality. The main challenge is for companies to design proper mechanisms for secure data mining and further handling of collected private data.  

3.	On Chinese “Spy Trains” [5]
Given news article was published in 2019 as a response to U.S. consideration to prevent China-made train cars to be supplied and distributed inside the country. The claim was made that China government will use these trains to spy on the U.S. citizens and therefore, steal sensitive data.
It is not the first time when U.S blocks a distributor of the technology from the particular country due to the privacy concern as it happened with Kaspersky anti-virus software from Russia. Nonetheless, this time, U.S. was called out for the hypocrisy when China pointed out the full-scale surveillance campaign conducted by NSA, which was disclosed by Edward Snowden.
In the era when computing technology, such as Internet, 5G, electric cars, and Internet of Things (IoT), are easy to access and consist of the complex hardware and software component, it should come as no surprise how easily the spyware can be used to invade the privacy and steal the data. It also well-known that government are collecting the data of its country citizens continuously – Internet traffic, street cameras, mobile network monitoring are few examples. 
In the light of this facts, it does seem reasonable that U.S. government does not want to provide its enemies with additional means for the surveillance. However, it does not make sense to ban only train cars, when most of the phones, chips, antennas, and many more hardware is made in China. The claim made by U.S that the ban will protect the citizens privacy also does not stand strong, considering that those same technologies made in U.S. can be used for the same exact reasons with only difference that the private data will be collected by the U.S. The ban of China-made technology also brings a problem of the affordability because U.S. technologies generally come at much greater price for the users. 

We have to admit that the surveillance will be in place anyways, with only difference sensitive data being collected internally or externally, and thus it is our responsibility and right to make a choice. 
This op-ed is an excellent example of the personal adjustment process applicable to each user. In this case, citizens and users of the U.S. should have an ability to choose whether the acquired security due to not using China-made technology worth the cost of using U.S.-made technology.


Conclusion
The problem of governments and large tech companies collecting private user data is not knew. The users should be able to control the privacy of their data and also have a choice and the ability to determine the scale of trade-off they are willing to do when it comes to technology cost, risks, and functionality. 


References
1.	Schneier, B. (2019, August 2). How Privacy Laws Hurt Defendants. Schneier on security. Retrieved May 13, 2022, from https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2019/08/how_privacy_law.html 
2.	Wexler, R. (2019, July 31). Op-Ed: How data privacy laws could make the criminal justice system even more unfair. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 13 May 2022, from https://www.latimes.com/opinion/story/2019-07-30/consumer-data-privacy-laws-crime-defendants-police-instagram.
3.	Scheier, B. (2019, September 4). Credit Card Privacy - Schneier on Security. Schneier.com. Retrieved 13 May 2022, from https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2019/09/credit_card_pri.html.
4.	Fowler, G. (2019, August 26). The spy in your wallet: Credit cards have a privacy problem. The Washington Post. Retrieved 13 May 2022, from https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/08/26/spy-your-wallet-credit-cards-have-privacy-problem/.
5.	Scheier, B. (2019, September 26). On Chinese "Spy Trains" - Schneier on Security. Schneier.com. Retrieved 14 May 2022, from https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2019/09/on_chinese_spy_.html.

